# TODO

- [ ] Add copyright or something to `flloat` classes, `ltlf2dfa` classes, `processtrace2dfa` classes
- [x] Check that Declare LTLf definition is correctly in the `declare_templates.txt`
  - Taken from AAAI, seems the most complete
- [x] rewrite `ltlf_dag` Clingo script to be a "preprocessing" step as in the other encodings
- [x] custom `flloat` grammar, `LTLfParser` to support `W` operator in Declare constraints
- [x] Fuzz syntax tree encoding wrt automata definitions for each constraint
  - [x] encoding
  - [x] bash scripts
  - [x] be sure-sure-sure all encodings work
    - everything works pair-to-pair

- [ ] Scripts for each task
  - [ ] conformance checking
  - ~[ ] query checking~ stesso motivo, l'ho fatto per KR e non scala bene
  - ~[ ] log generation/bounded satisfiability~ secondo Francesco no, è naive e ASP va male
- [ ] Scripts to benchmark over a suite of logs
- [x] Script to map LTLf into facts
  - [x] automaton encoding
  - [x] syntax tree encoding
  - [x] DAG encoding
  - [x] ad hoc encoding

- [ ] Script to map XES into facts
  - script Chiariello usa `trace(TID,A,T)`, uso dappertutto `trace(TID,T,A)`

- [x] Script to map Declare models into facts
  - [x] d4py -- al momento installandola da pip è rotta e non si può usare
  - [x] minerful
  - [ ] allineare nomim constraint d4py - AAAI

# Fact Schema
## Traces
Traces are encoded by atoms `trace(TID,T,A)`, which denotes that activity `A` occurs at time `T` in the trace with identifier `TID`.

## Model 
A model consists of one or more constraints. Constraints are modeled by atoms `constraint(C,T)` where `C` is a unique identifier for the constraint and `T` is the name of the template which instantiates the constraint.
Arguments are bound by means of the predicate `bind(C,Arg,A)`, which denotes that within constraint `C`, the argument `Arg` is bound to activity `A`.

#### Example
Consider the constraint `Response(a,b)`. This is represented by the facts:

`constraint(c1, "Response"). bind(c1, arg_0, a). bind(c2, arg_1, b).`

# Compiling formulae into facts
A template is an LTLf formula with an associated name. Assuming a set of constraints is stored as key-value pairs in a text file:

```
Response: G(arg_0 -> F(arg_1))
```
where `arg_*` denotes a template variable. Constraints are instantiated by providing substitutions for each variable in the template.

To compile a template into a set of facts, to be used in further conformance checking scripts, run:

```
python3 compile_template_automata.py [input file] > [output file]
python3 compile_template_syntax_tree.py [input file] > [output file]
python3 compile_template_dag.py [input file] > [output file]
```

# Describing a model
## Automata, Syntax Tree, XNF Syntax Tree
A model is a set of constraints. A constraint has a unique identifier, and belongs to a template. For each argument of the corresponding template, each constraint has to bind a value:

```
constraint(c1, "Response").
bind(c1, arg_0, "a").
bind(c2, arg_1, "b").
```

## Syntax Tree DAG
The syntax is a bit more involved, but similar to the previous example:

```
constraint(c1, "Response", ((arg_0, "a"),(arg_1, "b"))).
```

# Conformance Checking

```
clingo [encoding folder]/*.lp model.lp log.lp
```

where `model.lp` is a set of facts according to the `Describing a model` section, `log.lp` is an event log mapped to ASP facts, and `encoding folder` is a folder containing:

- templates of the constraints used in `model.lp`, obtained by running the script in `Compiling formulae into facts`
- `semantics.lp` 

# Fuzzing two encodings
The idea is to test if two encodings agree on all strings (up to a given length) by searching for a counterexample, e.g. a string that is accepted by one encoding and rejected by another encoding generated by the same DECLARE model. All pairs of logic programs should agree, but the automata is true and tested and should be the ground truth.
If we can't manage to find such counterexample, we are reasonably sure the encoding is correct.

Since the standard DECLARE constraints are unary/binary templates, it is sufficient to search strings over an alphabet of 3 symbols. If a symbol is not activation/target for a constraint, then the constraint is oblivious to it:

Example:
`(x,y,z,w) |= Response(x,y) ~~~> (a,b,*,*) |= Response(a,b)`
`(t,u,q,t) |= Response(t,u) ~~~> (a,b,*,a) |= Response(a,b)`

where `a` is the pattern activation, `b` is the pattern target for Response.
 
The script `testing/pairwise.py` performs pairwise fuzzing between two encodings. The script `testing/all_pairs` repeats it for all possible combinations in `{ad_hoc, ltlf_xnf, ltlf_base, ltlf_dag, automata}`.

